#Chapter_8 
- Whether you're accepting an offer, declining an offer, or responding to a rejection, it matters what you do.

### Offer Deadlines and Extensions
- When companies extend an offer, there's almost always a deadline attached to it.
	- Usually these deadlines are 1 - 4 weeks out.
- If you're still waiting to hear back from other companies, you can ask for an extension.
	- Companies will usually try to accommodate this, if possible.

### Declining an Offer
- Even if you aren't interested in working for this company right now, you might be interested in working for it in a few years.
	- It's in your best interests to decline the offer on good terms and keep a line of communication open.

- When you decline an offer, provide a reason that is non-offensive and inarguable.
	- For example, if you were declining a big company for a startup, you could explain that you feel a startup is the right choice for you at this time.

### Handling Rejection
- Most companies understand that these interviews aren't perfect and many good engineers get rejected.
	- So companies are often eager to re-interview previously rejected candidates.

- When you do get rejected, use this as an opportunity to build a bridge to re-apply.
	- Thank your recruiter for his time, explain that you're disappointed but you understand their position, and ask when you can reapply to the company.
- You can also ask for feedback from the recruiter.
	- In most cases, the big tech companies won't offer feedback, but some companies will.
	- It doesn't hurt to ask a question like, "Is there anything you'd suggest I work on for next time?"

### Evaluating the Offer
- How do you know if the company is the right fit for you?
- We'll go through a few things you should consider in evaluating an offer.
##### The Financial Package
- Perhaps the biggest mistake that candidates make is looking too much at their salary.
- You should also look at:
	- *Signing Bonus, Relocation, and Other One Time Perks*:
		- When comparing offers, it's wise to amortize this cash over how long you expect to stay.
	- *Cost of Living Difference*:
		- Taxes and other cost of living differences can make a big difference in your take-home pay.
	- *Annual Bonus*:
		- Annual bonuses at tech companies can range from anywhere from 3% to 30%.
		- Your recruiter might reveal the average, but if not, check with friends at the company.
	- *Stock Options and Grants*:
		- Equity compensation can form another big part of your annual compensation.
		- Like signing bonuses, stock compensation between companies can be compared by amortizing it over three years and then lumping that value into salary.

- Remember that what you learn and how a company advances your career often makes far more of a difference to your long term finances than the salary.

##### Career Development
- Consider the following questions:
	- *How good does the company's name look on my resume?*
	- *How much will I learn? Will I learn relevant things?*
	- *What is the promotion plan? How do the careers of developers progress?*
	- *If I want to move into management, does this company offer a realistic plan?*
	- *Is the company or team growing?*
	- *If I do want to leave the company, is it situated near other companies I'm interested in, or will I need to move?*

- The final point is extremely important and usually overlooked.

##### Company Stability
- All else being equal, of course stability is a good thing.
- However, the more stable companies are often growing more slowly.
- For some candidates, stability should not be a large factor.
	- Can you fairly quickly find a new job? If so, it might be better to take the rapidly growing company, even if it's unstable.
	- If you have work visa restrictions or just aren't confident in your ability to find something new, stability might be more important.

##### The Happiness Factor
- Any of the following factors may impact how happy you will be:\
	- *The Product*.
	- *Manager and Teammates*:
		- Have you met them? Did you enjoy talking to them?
	- *Company Culture*:
		- Ask your future teammates how they would describe the culture.
	- *Hours*:
		- Ask future teammates about how long they typically work.

- Additionally, note that if you are given the opportunity to switch teams easily (like at Google or Facebook), you'll have an opportunity to find a team and product that matches you well.