#Chapter_8 
- Here are some tips to get you started:
	- *Just Do It*:
		- Negotiating is so, so worth it.
		- Recruiters will not revoke an offer because you negotiated, so you have little to lose.
		- This is especially true if the offer is from a larger company. You probably won't be negotiating with your future teammates.
	- *Have a Viable Alternative*:
		- Recruiters negotiate with you because they're concerned you may not join the company otherwise.
		- If you have alternative options, that will make their concern much more real.
	- *Have a Specific "Ask"*:
		- It's more effective to ask for an additional $7000 in salary than to just ask for "more".
	- *Overshoot*:
		- Ask for a bit more than you're really hoping to get, since the company will probably meet you in the middle.
	- *Think Beyond Salary*:
		- Consider asking for more equity or a bigger signing bonus.
		- Alternatively, you may be able to ask for your relocation benefits in cash, instead of having the company pay directly for the moving fees.
	- *Use Your Best Medium*:
		- Many people advise you to only negotiate over the phone.
		- However, if you don't feel comfortable, do it via email.

- Additionally, if you're negotiating at a big company, you should know that they often have "levels" for employees, where all employees at a particular level are paid around the same amount.
- You can negotiate within the salary range for your level, but going beyond that requires bumping up a level.
- If you're looking for a big bump, you'll need to convince the recruiter and your future team that your experience matches this higher level - a difficult, but feasible, thing to do.