#Chapter_8 
- Once you actually join a company, you need to start thinking about your career path.
- Where will you go from here, and how will you get there?

### Set a Timeline
- You should outline your career path before starting a new job.
	- Where do you want to be in 10 years?
	- What are the necessary steps to get there?
- In addition, each year, think about what the next year of experience will bring you and how you career or your skill set advanced in the last year.

### Build Strong Relationships
- When you want to move on to something new, your network will be critical.

- At work, establish strong relationships with your manager and teammates.
- When employees leave, keep in touch with them.
	- Just a friendly note a few weeks after their departure will help to bridge that connection from a work acquaintance to a personal acquaintance.

### Ask For What You want
- While some managers may really try to grow your career, others will take a more hands-off approach.
	- It's up to you to pursue the challenges that are right for your career.

- Be (reasonably) frank about your goals with your manager.
	- If you want to take on more back-end coding projects, say so.
	- If you'd like to explore more leadership opportunities, discuss how you might be able to do so.

- You need to be your best advocate, so that you can achieve goals according to your timeline.

### Keep Interviewing
- Set a goal of interviewing at least once a year, even if you aren't actively looking for a new job. 
	- This will keep your interview skills fresh, and also keep you in tune with what sorts of opportunities (and salaries) are out there.

- If you get an offer, you don't have to take it. It will still build a connection with that company in case you want to join at a later date.