#Chapter_3
- The basic data structures described thus far all represent an unstructured set of items so as to facilitate retrieval operations. These data structures are well known to most programmers.
- Not as well known are data structures for representing more specialized kinds of objects, such as points in space, strings, and graphs.

- The design principles of these data structures are the same as for basic objects.
	- There exists a set of basic operations we need to perform repeatedly.
- We seek a data structure that allows these operations to be performed very efficiently.
	- These specialized data structures are important for efficient graph and geometric algorithms, so one should be aware of their existence:

- *String Data Structures*:
	- Character strings are typically represented by arrays of characters, perhaps with a special character to mark the end of the string.
	- Suffix trees/arrays special data structures that preprocess strings to make pattern matching operations faster.
- *Geometric Data Structures*:
	- Geometric data typically consists of collections of data points and regions.
	- Regions in the plane can be described by polygons, where the boundary of the polygon is a closed chain of line segments.
		- A polygon *P* can be represented using an array of points $(v_1,...,v_n,v_1)$ such that $(v_i,v_{i+1})$ is a segment of the boundary of *P*.
	- Spatial data structures such as *kd*-trees organize points and regions by geometric location to support fast search operations.
- *Graph Data Structures*:
	- Graphs are typically represented using either adjacency matrices or adjacency lists.
	- The choice in representation can have a substantial impact on the design of the resulting graph algorithms, and will be discussed in [[7.0 - Graph Traversal - Introduction|Chapter 7]].
- *Set Data Structures*:
	- Subsets of items are typically represented using a dictionary to support fast membership queries.
	- Alternatively, *bit vectors* are Boolean arrays such that the *i*th bit is 1 if *i* is in the subset.