#Chapter_1
- An algorithm is a procedure to accomplish a specific task. It is the idea behind any reasonable computer program.
- An algorithm must solve a general, well-specified *problem*.

- An algorithmic problem is specified by describing the complete set of *instances* it must work on, and of its output after running one on of these instances.
	- This distinction, between a problem and an instance of a problem, is fundamental.
		- Determining that you are dealing with a general problem instead of an instance is your first step towards solving it.

- An *algorithm* is a procedure that takes any of the possible input instances and transforms it to the desired output.

- There are three desirable properties for a good algorithm.
	- We seek algorithms that are *good* and *efficient*, while being *easy to implement*.
- However these goals may not be simultaneously achievable.
	- In industrial settings, algorithms that give good enough answers without being too slow are often acceptable, regardless of whether a better algorithm exists.
	- The issue of finding the best possible answer or achieving maximum efficiency usually arises in industry only after serious performance or legal troubles.

- This chapter will focus on algorithm correctness.
- Correct algorithms usually come with a proof of correctness, which explains *why* we know that the algorithm must take every instance of the problem to the desired result.
	- "*It's obvious*" never suffices as a proof of correctness, and is usually incorrect anyway.

See [[1.1 - Robot Tour Optimization]], [[1.2 - Selecting the Right Jobs]].