#Chapter_1 
- We need tools to distinguish correct algorithms from incorrect ones, the primary one of which is called a *proof*.

- A proper mathematical proof consists of several parts.
	- First, there is a clear, precise statement of what you are trying to prove.
	- Second, there is a set of assumptions of things that are taken to be true, and hence can be used as part of the proof.
	- Third, there is a chain of reasoning that takes you from these assumptions to the statement you are trying to prove.
	- Finally, there is a little square ∎ or *QED* at the bottom to denote that you have finished, representing the Latin phrase for "thus it is demonstrated". 

### 1.3.1 - Problems and Properties
- Problem specifications have two parts:
	- The set of allowed input instances; and
	- The required properties of the algorithm's output.
- It is impossible to prove the correctness of an algorithm for a fuzzily-stated problem.

- ***Take-Home Lesson:***
	- ***An important and honorable technique in algorithm design is to narrow the set of allowable instances until there *is* a correct and efficient algorithm.***
	- ***For example, we can restrict a graph problem from general graphs down to trees, or a geometric problem from two dimensions down to one.***

- There are two common traps when specifying the output requirements of a problem.
	- The first is asking an ill-defined question.
		- Asking for the *best* route between two places on a map is ill-defined, unless you specify what *best* means.
		- Do you mean the shortest route, or the fastest, or the one minimizing the number of turns?
	- The second trap involves creating compound goals.
		- The three route-planning criteria mentioned above are all well-defined goals that lead to correct, efficient optimization algorithms, but you must pick a single criterion.
		- A goal like *Find the shortest route from a to b that doesn't use more than twice as many turns as necessary* is perfectly well defined, but complicated to reason about and solve.

### 1.3.2 Expressing Algorithms
- Reasoning about an algorithm is impossible without a careful description of the sequence of steps that are to be performed.
- The three most common forms of algorithmic notation are:
	- English
	- Pseudocode
	- A real programming language.

- ***Take-Home Lesson:***
	- ***The heart of any algorithm is an *idea*.***
	- ***If your idea is not clearly revealed when you express an algorithm, then you are using too low-level a notation to describe it.***

### 1.3.3 Demonstrating Incorrectness
- The best way to prove that an algorithm is *incorrect* is to produce an instance on which it yields an incorrect answer.
	- Such instances are called *counterexamples*.

- Good counterexamples have two important properties:
	- *Verifiability*:
		- To demonstrate that a particular instance is a counterexample to a particular algorithm, you must be able to:
			- Calculate what answer your algorithm will give in this instance; and
			- Display a better answer so as to prove that the algorithm didn't find it.
	- *Simplicity*:
		- Good counterexamples have all unnecessary details stripped away.
			- They may clear exactly *why* the proposed algorithm fails.
		- Simplicity is important because you must be able to hold the given instance in your head in order to reason about it.
		- Once a counterexample has been found, it is worth simplifying it down to its essence.

- Hunting for counterexamples is a skill worth developing.
- Here are some techniques:
	- *Think Small.*
	- *Think Exhaustively.*
	- *Hunt for the weakness.*
	- *Go for a tie:*
		- A way to break a greedy heuristic is to provide instances where everything has the same size. Suddenly the heuristic has nothing to base its decision on, and perhaps has the freedom to return something suboptimal as the answer.
	- *Seek Extremes.*

See [[1.4 - Induction and Recursion]], [[1.6 - Proof by Contradiction]].