#Chapter_1 
- *Modeling* is the art of formulating your application in terms of precisely described, well-understood problems.
- Proper modeling is the key to applying algorithmic design techniques to real-word problems.
	- Indeed, proper modeling can eliminate the need to design or even implement algorithms, by relating your application to what has been done before.

- Real-world applications involve real-world objects.
- You might be working on a system to route traffic in a network, to find the best way to schedule classrooms in a university, or to search for patterns in a corporate database.
- Most algorithms, however, are designed to work on rigorously defined *abstract* structures such as permutations, graphs, and sets.
- To exploit the algorithms literature, you must learn to describe your problem abstractly, in terms of procedures on such fundamental structures.

### 1.5.1 - Combinatorial Objects
- To find out what is known about any algorithmic problem you care about, you must first formulate it in terms of computing properties of common structures such as those described below:
	- *Permutations*:
		- Arrangements, or orderings, of items.
			- For example {1,4,3,2} and {4,3,2,1} are two distinct permutations of the same set of four integers.
		- Permutations are likely the object in question whenever your problem seeks an "arrangement", "tour", "ordering", or "sequence".
	- *Subsets*:
		- Represent selections from a set of items.
			- For example {1,3,4} and {2} are two distinct subsets of the first four integers above.
			- Order does not matter in subsets the way it does with permutations, so the subsets {1,3,4} and {4,3,1} would be considered identical.
		- Subsets are likely the object in question whenever your problem seeks a "cluster", "collection", "committee", "group", "packaging", or "selection".
	- *Trees*:
		- Represent hierarchical relationships between items.
		- Trees are likely the object in question whenever your problem seeks a "hierarchy", "dominance relationship", "ancestor/descendant relationship", or "taxonomy".
	- *Graphs*:
		- Represent relationships between arbitrary pairs of objects.
		- Graphs are likely the object in question whenever you seek a "network", "circuit", "web", or "relationship".
	- *Polygons*:
		- Define regions in some geometric spaces.
			- For example, the borders of a country can be described by a polygon on a map/plane.
		- Polygons and polyhedra are likely the object in question whenever you are working on "shapes", "regions", "configurations", or "boundaries".
	- *Strings*:
		- Represent sequences of characters, or patterns.
			- For example, the names of students in a class can be represented by strings.
		- String are likely the object in question whenever you are dealing with "text", "characters", "patterns", or "labels".

- The act of modeling reduces your application to one of a small number of existing problems and structures.
	- Such a process in inherently constraining, and certain details may not fit easily into the given target problem.
	- Also, certain problems can be modeled in several different ways, some better than others.
- Modeling is only the first step in designing an algorithm for a problem.
	- Be alert for how the details of your applications differ from a candidate model, but don't be too quick to say that your problem is unique and special.
	- Temporarily ignoring details that don't fit can free the mind to ask whether they really were fundamental in the first place.

- ***Take-Home Lesson:***
	- ***Modeling your application in terms of well-defined structures and algorithms is the most important single step towards a solution.***

### 1.5.2 - Recursive Objects
- Learning to think recursively is learning to look for big things that are made from smaller things of *exactly the same type as the big thing*.
	- If you think of houses as sets of rooms, then adding or deleting a room still leaves a house behind.

- Recursive structures occur everywhere in the algorithmic world.

- *Permutations*:
	- Delete the first element of a permutation of *n* things and you get a permutation of the remaining $n-1$ things.
- *Subsets*:
	- Every subset of *n* items contains a subset of $n-1$ items by deleting element *n*, if it is present.
- *Trees*:
	- Delete the root of a tree and what do you get?
		- A collection of smaller trees.
	- Delete any leaf of a tree and what do you get?
		- A slightly smaller tree.
- *Graphs*:
	- Delete any vertex from a graph, and you get a smaller graph.
	- Divide the vertices of a graph into two groups, left and right. Then cut through all edges that span from left to right, and what do you get?
		- Two smaller graphs, and a bunch of broken edges.
- *Points*:
	- Take a cloud of points, and separate them into two groups by drawing a line.
		- Now you have two smaller clouds of points.
- *Polygons*:
	- Inserting any internal chord between two non-adjacent vertices of a simple polygon cuts it into two smaller polygons.
- *Strings*:
	- Delete the first character from a string, and what do you get?
		- A smaller string.

- Recursive descriptions of objects require both decomposition rules and *basis cases*, namely the specification of the smallest and simplest objects where the decomposition stops.
- These basis cases are usually easily defined.
	- Permutations and subsets of zero things presumably look like {}.
	- The smallest interesting tree or graph consists of a single vertex.
	- The smallest interesting point cloud consists of a single point.
	- The smallest genuine simple polygon is a triangle.
	- The empty string has zero characters in it.
- The decision of whether the basis case contains zero or one element is more a question of taste and convenience than any fundamental principle.

- Recursive decompositions will define many of the algorithms in this book.