#Chapter_12 
- We live in an era where the random access machine (RAM) model of computation introduced in [[2.1 - The RAM Model of Computation|Section 2.1]] is being augmented by a new class of computing devices.
	- These devices are powered by the principles of quantum mechanics, which ascribes seemingly impossible properties to how systems of atoms behave.
	- *Quantum computers* exploit these properties to perform certain types of computations with algorithmic efficiencies asymptotically faster than conventional machines.

- Quantum mechanics is well known for being so completely unintuitive that no one really understands it.
- I must make clear that there is absolutely no controversy about the rules of how quantum computers will behave.
- People in the know agree on the properties of quantum mechanics and the theoretical powers of these machines.
	- You don’t *have* to understand why a law exists in order to follow it to the letter.
- Research in quantum computing revolves around developing technologies to implement large and reliable quantum systems, and devising new algorithms to exploit this power.

- I presume that you the reader may well never have taken a physics course, and are likely rusty with linear algebra and complex numbers, so I will try to dispense with such matters.
- I presume that you the reader may well never have taken a physics course, and are likely rusty with linear algebra and complex numbers, so I will try to dispense with such matters.
- My approach is to make up a new model of a “quantum” computer.
	- This model isn’t really correct, but hopefully provides insight as to what makes these machines exciting.
- I provide a taste of how three of the most famous quantum algorithms work.
- Finally, I make some predictions on what the future holds for quantum computing, and confess some of my model’s lies in Section 12.10.5.

### 12.10.1 - Properties of "Quantum" Computers
- Conventional deterministic computers have *n* bits of memory.
	- At any moment, the probability $p(i)$ of being in state *i* equals zero for $2^n-1$ of the possible states, with $p(j)=1$ if the computer happens to be in state *j*.
	- This is a probability distribution over states, but not a very interesting one.

- Quantum computers come with *n* *qubits* of memory.
	- The state it is in at any moment is a probability distribution.
	- Each of the $2^n$ bit patterns has an associated probability, where $p(i)$ is the probability that when the machine is read, it would report being in state *i*.
	- This probability distribution is much richer than with conventional deterministic machines:
		- There can be a non-zero probability of being in all *N* states at any given time.
	- Being able to manipulate probability distribution in parallel for all $N=2^n$ states is the real win of quantum computing.
	- As is true of any probability distribution, all these probabilities must sum to one, so $\sum^{N-1}_{i=0}p(i)=1$.

- "Quantum" computers support the following operations:
	- *Initialize-state(Q, n, D)*:
		- Initialize the probability distribution of the *n* qubits of machine *Q* as per the description *D*.
			- Obviously this would take $\Theta(2^n)$ time if *D* was given as an explicit list of the desired probability of each state.
			- We thus seek general descriptions that are smaller, say $O(n)$ in size, like “set each of the $N = 2^n$ states to be of equal probability, so $p(i)=1/2^n$.”
		- The time of the Initialize-state operation is $O(|D|)$, not $O(N)$.

	- *Quantum-gate(Q, c)*:
		- Change the probability distribution of machine *Q* according to a quantum gate condition *c*.
			- Quantum gates are logic operations akin to *and* or *or*, changing the probabilities of states according to the current contents of (say) qubits $q_x$ and $q_y$.
		- The time of this operation is proportional to the number of qubits involved with condition *c*, but typically is $O(1)$.

	- *Jack(Q, c):
		- Increase the probabilities of all states defined by condition *c*.
			- For example, we might want to jack up the probabilities of all states where *c* = “qubit $q_2 = 1$”, as shown in Figure 12.14.
			- This takes time proportional to the number of qubits in condition *c*, but typically is $O(1)$.
		- That this can be done in constant time should be recognized as surprising.
			- Even if the condition raises the probability of just one state *i*, in order to keep the sum totaling to one the probabilities of all $2^n − 1$ other states must be lowered.
		- That this can be done in constant time is one of the strange properties of “quantum” physics.

	- *Sample(Q)*:
		- Select exactly one of the $2^n$ states at random as per the current probability distribution of machine *Q*, and return the values of the *n* qubits $q_0,...,q_{n−1}$.
		- This takes $O(n)$ time to report the state of the machine.

- “Quantum” algorithms are sequences of these powerful operations, perhaps augmented with control logic from conventional computers.

### 12.10.2 - Grover's Algorithm for Database Search

Search(Q, S)
	Repeat
		*Jack(Q, "all strings where $S=q_n...q_{n+m-1}$")*
	Until probability of success is high enough
	Return the first *n* bits of *Sample(Q)*

- Each such *Jack* operation takes constant time, which is fast.
	- But it increases the probabilities at a slow-enough rate that $\Theta(\sqrt{N}$) rounds are necessary and sufficient to make success likely.
- Thus, this algorithm returns the appropriate string in $\Theta(\sqrt{N})$, a big win over the $\Theta(N)$ complexity of sequential search.


- ***Take-Home Lesson:***
	- ***Despite their powers, quantum computers cannot solve NP-complete problems in polynomial time. Of course, the world changes if $P = NP$, but presumably $P \neq NP$.***
	- ***We believe that the class of problems that can be solved in polynomial time on a quantum computer (called BQP) does not contain NP with roughly the same confidence that we believe $P \neq NP$.***

### 12.10.3 - The Faster "Fourier Transform"


### 12.10.4 - Shor's Algorithm for Integer Factorization

Factor(M)
	Set up an n-qubit quantum system *Q*, where $N = 2^n$ and $M<N$.
	Initialize *Q* so that $p(i)=1/2^n$ for all $0 \leq i \leq N − 1$.
	Repeat
		*Jack(Q, “all i such that ($gcd(i, M) > 1$)”)*
	Until the probabilities of all terms relatively prime to M are very small.
	FFT(Q).
	For $j = 1$ to $n$
		$S_j = Sample(Q)$
		If ($(d = GCD(Sj , Sk)) > 1)$ and (*d* divides *M*)), for some $k<j$
			Return(d) as a factor of M
	Otherwise report no factor was found

- Each of these operations takes time proportional to n.

### 12.10.5 - Prospects for Quantum Computing
- My vision is not necessarily better than anyone else’s, but I will make some educated guesses:

- *Quantum computing is a real thing, and is gonna happen*:
	- One develops a reasonably trustworthy bullsh\*t detector after watching technology hype-cycles for forty years, and quantum computing now passes my sniff test by a safe margin.
	- I see very smart people excited by the prospects of the field, clear and steady technological progress, and substantial investment by big companies and other important players.
	- At this point, I would be surprised if it fizzles out completely.

- *Quantum computing is unlikely to impact the problems considered in this book*:
	- The value of your hard-won algorithms expertise gained from reading my book will hold up just fine in the quantum computing era.
		- I see it as a technology with specialized applications, akin to the way the fastest supercomputers are seen primarily in scientific computing instead of industry.
		- With the exception of factoring integers, there is nothing in this book that I see as potentially better done on quantum computers.
	- The fastest technology does not necessarily take over the world.
		- The highest achievable data transmission rates involve giant aircraft packed with DVDs or an even denser storage media.
			- Still, no one has figured out a way to exploit this technology commercially.
		- Similarly, quantum computing is not necessarily a good fit with most of traditional computing.

- *The big wins are likely to be in problems computer scientists don’t really care about*:
	- It is not yet clear what the killer app for quantum computing will be, but the most promising applications seem to involve simulating quantum systems.
		- This is a big deal in chemistry and material science, and may well lead to amazing revolutions in drug design and engineering.
	- But it is unclear to what degree computer scientists will lead the fight in this revolution.


- You should be aware that the “quantum” computing model I describe here differs from real quantum computers in several important ways, although I believe it basically captures the flavor of how they work.
- Still, in real quantum computers:

- *The role of probabilities are played by complex numbers*:
	- Probabilities are real numbers between 0 and 1 that add up to 1 over all elements of the probability space.
	- Quantum probabilities are complex numbers whose squares lie between 0 and 1 that add up to 1 over all elements of the probability space.
		- Recall that the FFT algorithm described in [[5.9 - Convolution|Section 5.9]] works on complex numbers, which is the source of its power.

- *Reading the state of a quantum system destroys it*:
	- When we randomly sample from the state of a quantum system, we lose all information about the remaining $2^n − 1$ states.
		- Thus, we cannot repeatedly sample from the distribution, as we did above.
		- But we *can* recreate the system from scratch as many times as we need, and sample each of these to get the effect of repeated sampling.
	- The key hurdle of quantum computing is how to extract the answer we want, because this measurement yields only a tiny bit of the information inherent in *Q*.
		- If some but not all of the qubits in Q are measured, then the remaining qubits also get “measured” in that their state collapses accordingly
			- This is the real source of magic in quantum computing, and is referred to as *entanglement*.

- *Real quantum systems breakdown (or decohere) easily*:
	- Manipulating individual atoms to do complex things is not child’s play.
	- Quantum computers are generally run at extremely low temperatures and in shielded environments to get them to hang together as long as possible.
	- With current technologies this isn’t very long, limiting the complexity of algorithms that can be run and mandating the development of error-correction technologies for quantum systems.

- *Initializing quantum states and the powers of quantum gates are somewhat different than described above*:
	- I have played fast and loose with exactly how you can initialize quantum states and what operations you can do with them.
	- Quantum gates are essentially unitary matrices, multiplication by which changes the probabilities of Q.
	- These operations are well defined by the properties of quantum mechanics, but the details matter here.