#Chapter_12 
- For certain optimization problems, all (or most) of the solutions are seemingly close to the best possible.
- Recognizing this yields very simple approximation algorithms with provable guarantees, that can often be refined by the heuristic search strategies we will discuss in Section 12.6 into something even better.

### 12.4.1 - Maximum *k*-SAT
- Recall the problem of 3-SAT discussed in [[11.4 - Satisfiability|Section 11.4.1]], where we are given a set of three-element logic clauses like:
	- $v_3$ or $\bar{v_{17}}$ or $v_{24}$
- and asked to find an assignment of either true or false to each variable $v_i$ so as to make all the clauses true.

- A more general problem is *maximum* 3-SAT, where we seek the Boolean variable assignment that makes the largest number of these clauses true.
- Asking whether you can satisfy 100% of the clauses is the original 3-SAT problem, so maximum 3-SAT must still be hard.
	- But now it is an optimization problem, so we can think about approximation algorithms for it.

- What happens when we flip a coin to decide the value of each variable $v_i$, and thus construct a completely random truth assignment?
- What fraction of clauses would we expect to satisfy?
- Consider the clause above.
	- It will be satisfied unless we pick $v_3=$ false, $v_{17}=$ true, and $v_{24}=$ false.
	- The probability we get a good assignment for the clause is $1-(1/2)^3=7/8$.
	- Thus, we expect that any random assignment will satisfy (7/8) of the clauses, in other words 87.5% of them.

- That seems pretty good for a mindless approach to an NP-complete problem.
- For a maximum *k*-SAT instance with *m* input clauses, we expect to satisfy $m(1-(1/2)^k)$ of them with any random assignment.
- From an approximation standpoint, the longer the clauses, the easier it is to get close to the optimum.

### 12.4.2 - Maximum Acyclic Subgraph
- Directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) are easier to work with than general directed graphs.
- Sometimes is it useful to simply a given graph by deleting a set of edges or vertices that suffice to break all cycles.
	- Such *feedback* set problems are discussed in Section 19.11.

- Here we consider an interesting problem in this class, where we seek to retain as many edges as possible while breaking all directed cycles:

- ***Problem:*** Maximum Directed Acyclic Subgraph
- ***Input:*** A directed graph $G=(V,E)$
- ***Output:*** Find the largest possible subset $E'\subseteq E$ such that $G'=(V,E')$ is acyclic.

- In fact, there is a very simple algorithm that guarantees you a solution with at least half as many edges as optimum:

___

- Construct *any* permutation of the vertices, and interpret it as a left-to-right ordering, akin to topological sorting.
	- Now some of the edges will point from left to right, while the rest point from right to left.

- One of these two edge subsets must be at least as large as the other.
	- This means it contains at least half the edges.
- Furthermore, each of these two edge subsets must be acyclic for the same reason only DAGs can be topologically sorted - you cannot form a cycle by repeatedly moving in one direction.
	- Thus, the larger edge subset must be acyclic, and contain at least half the edges of the optimal solution.

- This approximation algorithm *is* simple almost to the point of being stupid.
- But note that heuristics can make it perform better in practice without losing this guarantee.
	- Perhaps we can try many random permutations, and pick the best.
	- Or we can try to exchange pairs of vertices in the permutations retaining those swaps that throw more edges onto the bigger side.