#Chapter_12 
- Many heuristic search methods have been proposed for combinatorial optimization problems.
- Like simulated annealing, many of these techniques rely on analogies to real-world processes, including *genetic algorithms*, *neural networks*, and *ant colony optimization*.

- The intuition behind these methods is highly appealing, but skeptics decry them as voodoo optimization techniques that rely more on superficial analogies to nature than producing superior computational results on real problems compared to other methods.

- The question isn’t whether you can get decent answers for many problems given enough effort using these techniques. Clearly you can.
	- The real question is whether they lead to *better* solutions with *less implementation complexity* or *greater efficiency* than the other methods we have discussed.

- In general, I don’t believe that they do. But in the spirit of free inquiry, I introduce genetic algorithms, which is the most popular of these methods. See the Chapter Notes section for more detailed readings.

### Genetic Algorithms
- Genetic algorithms draw their inspiration from evolution and natural selection.
- Through the process of natural selection, organisms adapt to optimize their chances for survival in a given environment.
- Random mutations occur in an organism’s genetic description, which then get passed on to its offspring.
	- Should a mutation prove helpful, these children are more likely to survive and reproduce.
	- Should it prove harmful, they won’t, and so the bad trait will die with them.

- Genetic algorithms maintain a “population” of solution candidates for the given problem.
- Elements are drawn at random from this population and allowed to “reproduce” by combining aspects of the two-parent solutions.
- The probability that an element is chosen to reproduce is based on its “fitness,” essentially the quality of the solution it represents.
	- Unfit elements are removed from the population, to be replaced by a successful-solution offspring.

- The idea behind genetic algorithms is extremely appealing.
- However, they just don’t seem to work as well on practical combinatorial optimization problems as simulated annealing does.
- There are two primary reasons for this.
	- First, it is quite unnatural to model applications in terms of genetic operators like mutation and crossover on bit strings.
		- The pseudo-biology adds another level of complexity between you and your problem.
	- Second, genetic algorithms take a very long time on non-trivial problems.
		- The crossover and mutation operations typically make no use of problem-specific structure, so most transitions lead to inferior solutions, and convergence is slow.
		- Indeed, the analogy with evolution— where significant progress require millions of years—can be quite appropriate.

- I will not discuss genetic algorithms further, except to discourage you from considering them for your applications.
- However, pointers to implementations of genetic algorithms are provided in Section 16.5 (page 478) if you really insist on playing with them.

- ***Take-Home Lesson:***
	- ***I have never encountered any problem where genetic algorithms seemed to me the right way to attack it.***
	- ***Further, I have never seen any computational results reported using genetic algorithms that favorably impressed me.***
	- ***Stick to simulated annealing for your heuristic search voodoo needs.***