#Chapter_4
- In what order do we want our items sorted?
	- The answer to this question in application specific.

- Consider the following issues:
	- *Increasing or Decreasing Order*?
		- A set of keys *S* are sorted in *ascending* order when $S_i \leq S_{i+1}$ for all $1\leq i < n$.
		- There are in *descending* order when $S_i \geq S_{i+1}$ for all $1\leq i < n$.
		- Different applications call for different orders.
	- *Sorting the Key or an Entire Record?*
		- Sorting a data set requires maintaining the integrity of complex data records.
			- A mailing list of names, addresses, and phone numbers may be sorted by names as the key field, but it had better retain the linkage between names and addresses.
		- Thus, we need to specify which is the key field in any complex record, and understand the full extent of each record.
	- *What Should we do With Equal Keys*?
		- Elements with equal key values all bunch together in any total order, but sometimes the relative order among these keys matters.
			- You may need to resort to secondary keys to resolve ties in a meaningful way.
		- Sometimes it is required to leave the items in the same relative order as in the original permutation.
			- Sorting algorithms that automatically enforce this requirement are called *stable*.
			- Few fast algorithms are naturally stable.
			- Stability can be achieved for any sorting algorithm by adding the initial position as a secondary key.
		- Of course we could make no decision about equal key order and let the ties fall where they may.
			- However, certain efficient sort algorithms (such as quicksort) can run into quadratic performance trouble unless explicitly engineered to deal with large numbers of ties.
	- *What About Non-Numerical Data*?
		- Alphabetizing defines the sorting of text strings.
		- Libraries have very complete and complicated rules concerning the relative *collating sequence* of characters and punctuation.
			- Is *Skiena* the same key as *skiena*?
			- Is *Brown-Williams* before or after *Brown America*, and before or after *Brown, John*?

- The right way to specify such details to your sorting algorithm is with an application-specific pairwise-element *comparison function*.
	- Such a comparison function takes pointers to record items *a* and *b* and returns "<" if *a < b*, ">" if *a > b*, or "=" if *a == b*.
- By abstracting the pairwise ordering decision to such a comparison function, we can implement sorting algorithms independently of such criteria.
	- We simply pass the comparison function in as an argument to the sort procedure.

- Any reasonable programming language has a built-in sort routine as a library function.
	- You are usually better off using this than writing your own routine.
- For example, the standard library for C contains the `qsort` function for sorting:
```C
#include <stdlib.h>
void qsort(void *base, size_t nel, size_t width, int (*compare) (const void *, const void *));
```
- The key to using `qsort` is realizing what its arguments do.
	- It sorts the first `nel` arguments of an array (pointed to by `base`), where each element is `width`-bytes long.
		- We can thus sort arrays of 1-byte characters, 4-byte integers, or 100-byte records, all by changing the value of `width`.
- The desired output order is determined by the `compare` function.
	- It takes as arguments to two `width`-byte elements, and returns a negative number if the first belongs before the second in sorted order, a positive number if the second belongs before the first, or zero if they are the same.
- Here is a comparison function to sort integers in increasing order:
```C
int intCompare(int *i, int *j) {
	if (*i > *j) return (1);
	if (*i < *j) return (-1);
	return (0);
}
```
- This comparison function can be used to sort an array `a`, of which the first `n` elements are occupied, as follows:
```C
qsort(a, n, sizeof(int), intCompare);
```
- The name `qsort` suggests that quicksort is the algorithm implemented in this library function, although this is usually irrelevant to the user.