#Chapter_4 
- Resume screeners look for the same things that interviewers do. They want to know that you're smart and that you can code.

### Appropriate Resume Length
- Strongly advised to keep a resume to one page if you have less than ten years of experience.
	- More experienced candidates may justify 1.5 - 2 pages.

- Shorter resumes are often more impressive.
	- Recruiters spend about 10 seconds looking at your resume.
		- If you limit the content to the most impressive items, the recruiter is sure to see them.
		- Additional items just distracts the recruiter from what you'd really like them to see.
	- Some people refuse to read long resumes.

### Employment History
- Include only the relevant positions, the ones that make you a more impressive candidate.

- *Writing Strong Bullets*:
	- For each role, try to discuss your accomplishments with the following approach: "Accomplished X by implementing Y which led to Z".
		- Here's an example:
			- "Reduced object rendering time by 75% by implementing distributed caching, leading to a 10% reduction in log-in time."
		- Here's another example with an alternate wording:
			- "Increased average match accuracy from 1.2 to 1.5 by implementing a new comparison algorithm based on windiff."
	- Not everything will fit into this approach, but the principle is the same: show what you did, how you did it, and what the results were.
	- Ideally, you should try to make the results "measurable" somehow.

### Projects
- Should include your 2 - 4 most significant projects.
	- State what the project was and which languages or technologies it employed.
	- May include details such as whether the project was individual or a team project, and whether it was for a course or independent.

### Programming Languages and Software
- *Software*:
	- Be conservative about what software you list, and understand what's appropriate for the company. 
	- Evaluate the trade-off of listing heaps of software and taking up valuable space.
- *Languages*:
	- Listing everything you've ever worked with is dangerous. Many interviewers consider anything on your resume to be "fair game" as far as the interview.
	- One alternative is to list most of the languages you've used, but add your experience level:
		- Languages: Java (expert), C++ (proficient), JavaScript (prior experience).

### Beware of (Potential) Stigma
- Certain languages have stigmas associated with them. Here's a few you should be aware of:
	- *Enterprise Languages:*
		- If you show yourself to be an expert with Visual Basic, for example, it can cause people to assume you're less skilled.
	- *Being Too Language Focused*:
		- There is a belief in many circles that the best software engineers don't define themselves around a particular language.
		- You need to understand what that company values. Some companies do value this. 
	- *Certifications*:
		- Certifications for software engineers can be anything from a positive, to a neutral, to a negative.
		- This means that in some cases, you should actually remove this sort of experience from your resume.
	- *Knowing Only One or Two Languages:*
		- The assumption is, when they see a resume with only one language, is that you haven't experienced very many problems.
		- They also often worry that candidates with only one or two languages will have trouble learning new technologies (why hasn't the candidate learned more things?) or will just feel too tied with a specific technology (potentially not using the best language for the task).