#Chapter_2 
- Mathematical summation formulae are important to use for two reasons.
	- First, they often arise in algorithm analysis.
	- Second, proving the correctness of such formulae is a classic application of mathematical induction.

- Summation formulae are concise expressions describing the addition of an arbitrarily large set of numbers, in particular the formula:
						$\sum_{i=1}^{n} f(i)=f(1)+f(2)+...+f(n)$

- Simple, closed forms exist for summations of many algebraic functions.
- For example, since the sum of *n* ones is *n*:
						$\sum_{i=1}^{n}1=n$.

- When *n* is even, the sum of the first $n=2k$ integers can be seen by pairing up the *i*th and $(n-i+1)$th integers:
						$\sum_{i=1}^{n}i=\sum_{i=1}^{k}(i+(2k-i+1))=k(2k+1)=n(n+1)/2$
- The same result holds for odd *n* with slightly more careful analysis.

- Recognizing two basic classes of summation formulae will get you a long way in algorithm analysis:
	- *Sum of a power of integers*:
		- We encountered the sum of the first *n* positive integers $S(n)=\sum_{i=1}^{n}i=n(n+1)/2$ in the analysis of selection sort.
		- From the big picture perspective, the important thing is that the sum is quadratic, not that the constant in $1/2$.
		- In general, $S(n,p)=\sum_{i=1}^{n}i^p=\Theta(n^{p+1})$ for $p\geq0$.
			- Thus, the sum of squares is cubic, and the sum of cubes is quartic.
			- For $p<-1$, thus sum $S(n,p)$ always converges to a constant as $n\to\infty$, while for $p\geq0$ it diverges.
				- The interesting case between these is the Harmonic numbers, $H(n)=\sum_{i=1}^{n}1/i=\Theta(\log n)$.
	- *Sum of a geometric progression*:
		- In geometric progressions, the index of the loop affects the exponent, that is, $G(n,a)=\sum_{i=0}^{n}a^i=(a^{n+1}-1)/(a-1)$
		- How we interpret this sum depends upon the *base* of the progression, in this case *a*.
			- When $|a|<1$, $G(n,a)$ converges to a constant as $n\to\infty$.
				- This series convergence means that the sum of a linear number of things can be constant, not linear.
					- For example, $1+1/2+1/4+1/8+...\leq2$ no matter how many terms we add up.
			- When $a>1$, the sum grows rapidly with each new term, as in $1+2+4+8+16+32=63$.
				- Indeed, $G(n,a)=\Theta(a^{n+1})$ for $a>1$.