#Chapter_11 
- To demonstrate the hardness of problems by using reductions, we must start from a single problem that is absolutely, certifiably, undeniably hard to compute.

- The mother of all NP-complete problems is a logic problem named *satisfiability*:

- ***Problem:*** Satisfiability (SAT)
- ***Input:*** A set of Boolean variables *V* and a set of logic clauses *C* over *V*.
- ***Output:*** Does there exist a satisfying truth assignment for *C*—in other words, a way to set each of the variables $\{v_1,...,v_n\}$ either true or false so that every clause contains at least one true literal?

- This can be made clear with two examples.

- Consider $C = \{\{v_1, \bar{v_2}\}, \{\bar{v_1}, v_2\}\}$ over the Boolean variables $V = \{v_1, v_2\}$.\
	- We use $\bar{v_i}$ to denote the complement of the variable $v_i$, because $\bar{v_i}$ means “not $v_i$.”
- We get credit for satisfying a particular clause containing $v_i$ if $v_i = true$, or a clause containing $\bar{v_i}$ if $v_i = false$.
	- Therefore, satisfying a particular set of clauses involves making a series of n true or false decisions, trying to find the right truth assignment to satisfy all of them.
- The example clause set $C = \{\{v_1, \bar{v_2}\}, \{\bar{v_1}, v_2\}\}$ corresponds to the logical expression $(v_1\vee \bar{v_2})\wedge (\bar{v_1}\vee v_2)$, and can be satisfied either by setting $v_1 = v_2 = true$ or $v_1 = v_2 = false$.

- However, consider the set of clauses $\{\{v_1, v_2\}, \{v_1, \bar{v_2}\}, \{\bar{v_1}\}\}$.
	- Here there can be no satisfying assignment, because $v_1$ *must* be false to satisfy the third clause, which means that $v_2$ *must* be false to satisfy the second clause, which then leaves the first clause unsatisfiable.
	- Although you try, and you try, and you try, you can’t get no satisfaction.

- For a combination of social and technical reasons, it is well accepted that satisfiability is a hard problem; one for which no worst-case polynomial-time algorithm exists.
	- Literally every top-notch algorithm expert in the world (and countless lesser lights) has directly or indirectly tried to come up with a fast algorithm to test whether any given set of clauses is satisfiable.
		- All have failed.
- Furthermore, many strange and impossible-to-believe things in the field of computational complexity have been shown to be true if there exists a fast satisfiability algorithm.
	- Proving something is as hard as satisfiability means that it is hard. 
- See Section 17.10 (page 537) for more on the satisfiability problem and its applications.

### 11.4.1 - 3-Satisfiability
- Satisfiability’s role as the first NP-complete problem implies that the problem is hard to solve in the worst case.
	- But certain special-case instances of the problem are not necessarily so tough.

- Suppose that each clause contains exactly one literal, say $\{v_i\}$ or $\{\bar{v_j}\}$.
	- There is only one way to set the literal so as to satisfy such a clause: clearly $v_i$ had better be set true and $v_j$ set false to have any hope of satisfying the full set of clauses.
- Only when we have two clauses that directly contradict each other, such as $C = \{\{v_1\}, \{\bar{v_1}\}\}$, will the set not be satisfiable.

- Since it is so easy to determine whether clause sets with exactly one literal per clause are satisfiable, we are interested in slightly larger classes.
	- How many literals per clause do you need to turn the problem from polynomial to hard?

- This transition occurs when each clause contains three literals, that is:

- ***Problem:*** 3-Satisfiability (3-SAT)
- ***Input:*** A collection of clauses *C* where each clause contains exactly 3 literals, over a set of Boolean variables *V*.
- ***Output:*** Is there a truth assignment to *V* such that each clause is satisfied?

- Since 3-SAT is a restricted case of satisfiability, the hardness of 3-SAT would imply that general satisfiability is hard.
	- The converse isn’t true, since the hardness of general satisfiability could conceivably depend upon having long clauses.
	- But we can show the hardness of 3-SAT using a reduction that translates every instance of satisfiability into an instance of 3-SAT without changing whether it is satisfiable.

- This reduction transforms each clause independently based on its *length*, by adding new clauses and Boolean variables along the way.
- Suppose clause $C_i$ contained k literals:

- $k=1$, say $C_i=\{z_1\}$:
	- We create two new variables $v_1, v_2$ and four new 3-literal clauses: $\{v_1, v_2, z_1\}$, $\{v_1, \bar{v_2}, z_1\}, \{\bar{v_1}, v_2, z_1\}, \{\bar{v_1}, \bar{v_2}, z_1\}$.
	- Observe that the only way that all four of these clauses can be simultaneously satisfied is if $z_1 = true$, which means the original $C_i$ will have been satisfied.
- $k=2$, say $C_i=\{z_1,z_2\}$:
	- We create one new variable $v_1$ and two new clauses: $\{v_1, z_1, z_2\}, \{\bar{v_1}, z_1, z_2\}$.
	- Again, the only way to satisfy both of these clauses is to have at least one of $z_1$ and $z_2$ be true, thus satisfying $C_i$.
- $k=3$, say $C_i=\{z_1,z_2,z_3\}$:
	- We copy $C_i$ into the 3-SAT instance unchanged: $\{z_1, z_2, z_3\}$.
- $k>3$, say $C_i=\{z_1,z_2,...,z_k\}$:
	- Here we create $k−3$ new variables and $k−2$ new clauses in a chain, where $C_{i,1} = \{z_1, z_2, \bar{v_{i,1}}\}, C_{i,j} = \{v_{i,j−1}, z_{j+1}, \bar{v_{i,j}}\}$ for $2 \leq j \leq k − 3$, and $C_{i,k−2} = \{v_{i,k−3}, z_{k−1}, z_k\}.$
	- This is best illustrated with an example.
		- The clause $C_i=\{z_1, z_2, z_3, z_4, z_5, z_6\}$ gets transformed into the following set of four 3-literal clauses with three new Boolean variables: $v_{i,1}, v_{i,2}$, and $v_{i,3}$:
			- $\{\{z_1, z_2, \bar{v_{i,1}}\}, \{v_{i,1}, z_3, \bar{v_{i,2}}\}, \{v_{i,2}, z_4, \bar{v_{i,3}}\}, \{v_{i,3}, z_5, z_6\}\}$

- The most complicated case is that of the large clauses.
	- If none of the original literals in $C_i$ are true, then there are not enough new free variables to be able to satisfy all the new subclauses.
	- However, if any single literal $z_i = true$, then we have $k − 3$ free variables and $k − 3$ remaining 3-clauses, so we can satisfy all of them.

- This transform takes $O(n+c)$ time if there were c clauses and n total literals in the SAT instance.
	- Since any solution to the original SAT problem instance also satisfies the 3-SAT instance we have constructed, and vice versa, the transformed problem is equivalent to the original.

- Note that a slight modification to this construction would serve to prove that 4-SAT, 5-SAT, or any ($k \geq 3$)-SAT is also NP-complete.
	- However, this construction breaks down if we try to use it for 2-SAT, since there is no way to stuff anything into the chain of clauses.
	- It turns out that a breadth-first search on an appropriate graph can be used to give a linear-time algorithm for 2-SAT, as discussed in Section 17.10 (page 537).