#Chapter_11 
- Proving that problems are hard is a skill.
	- But once you get the hang of it, reductions can be surprisingly straightforward and pleasurable to do.
- Indeed, the dirty little secret of NP-completeness proofs is that they are usually easier to create than explain, in much the same way that it can be easier to rewrite old code than to understand and modify it.

- It takes experience to judge which problems are likely to be hard.
	- The quickest way to gain this experience is through careful study of the catalog.
	- Slightly changing the wording of a problem can make the difference between it being polynomial or NP-complete.
		- Finding the shortest path in a graph is easy, but finding the longest path in a graph is hard.
		- Constructing a tour that visits all the edges once in a graph is easy (Eulerian cycle), but constructing a tour that visits all the vertices once is hard (Hamiltonian cycle).

- The first place to look when you suspect a problem might be NP-complete is Garey and Johnson’s book Computers and Intractability \[GJ79], which contains a list of several hundred problems known to be NP-complete.
	- Likely one of these is the problem you are interested in.

- Otherwise I offer the following advice to those seeking to prove the hardness of a given problem:

- *Make your source problem as simple (meaning restricted) as possible*:
	- Never try to use the general traveling salesman problem (TSP) as a source problem.
		- Better, use Hamiltonian cycle: TSP where all the weights are restricted 1 or ∞.
			- Even better, use Hamiltonian path instead of cycle, so you never have to worry about closing up the cycle.
				- Best of all, use Hamiltonian path on directed planar graphs where each vertex has total degree 3.
		- All of these problems are equally hard, but the more you can restrict the problem that you are translating from, the less work your reduction has to do.
	- As another example, never try to use full satisfiability to prove hardness. Start with 3-satisfiability.
		- In fact, you don’t even have to use full 3-satisfiability.
		- Instead, you can use planar 3-satisfiability, where there must exist a way to draw the clauses as a graph in the plane such that you can connect all instances of the same literal together without edges crossing.
			- This property tends to be useful in proving the intractability of geometric problems.
	- All these variants are equally hard, and hence NP-completeness reductions using any of them are equally convincing.

- *Make your target problem as hard as possible*:
	- Don’t be afraid to add extra constraints or freedoms to make your target problem more general and therefore harder.
		- Perhaps your undirected graph problem can be generalized into a directed graph problem, and can hence only be easier to prove hard.
	- After you have a proof of hardness for the harder problem, you can then go back and try to simplify the target.

- *Select the right source problem for the right reason*:
	- Selecting the right source problem makes a big difference in how difficult it is to prove hardness.
		- This is the first and easiest place to go wrong, although theoretically any NP-complete problem works as well as any other.
	- When trying to prove that a problem is hard, some people fish around through lists of dozens of problems, looking for the best fit.
		- These people are amateurs: odds are they will never recognize the problem they are looking for when they see it.
	- I use four (and only four) problems as candidates for my hard source problem.
		- Limiting them to four means that I can know a lot about each one, like which variants of the problems are hard and which are not.
	- My favorite source problems are:
		- *3-SAT:*
			- The old reliable. When none of the three problems below seem appropriate, I go back to the original source.
		- *Integer Partition:*
			- This is the one and only choice for problems whose hardness seems to require using large numbers.
		- *Vertex Cover:*
			- This is the answer for any graph problem whose hardness depends upon *selection*.
			- Chromatic number, clique, and independent set all involve trying to select the right subset of vertices or edges.
		- *Hamiltonian Path:*
			- This is my choice for any graph problem whose hardness depends upon *ordering*.
			- If you are trying to route or schedule something, Hamiltonian path is likely your lever into the problem.

- *Amplify the penalties for making the undesired selection*:
	- Many people are too timid in their thinking about hardness proofs.
		- You want to translate one problem into another, while keeping the problems as close to their original identities as possible.
	- The easiest way to do this is by being bold with your penalties, to punish for deviating from your intended solution.
		- Your thinking should be, “if you select this element, then you must pick up this huge set that blocks you from finding an optimal solution.”
	- The sharper the consequences for doing what is undesired, the easier it is to prove the equivalence of the results.

- *Think strategically at a high level, then build gadgets to enforce tactics*:
	- You should be asking yourself questions, like:
		- How can I force that A or B is chosen but not both?
		- How can I force that A is taken before B?
		- How can I clean up the things I did not select?
	- Once you know what you want your gadgets to do, you can then worry about how to actually craft them.

- *When you get stuck, switch between looking for an algorithm and a reduction*:
	- Sometimes the reason you cannot prove hardness is that there exists an efficient algorithm to solve your problem!
		- Techniques such as dynamic programming or reducing problems to powerful but polynomial-time graph problems like matching or network flow can yield surprising algorithms.
	- When you can’t prove hardness, it pays to stop and try to find an algorithm—just to keep yourself honest.