#Chapter_11 
- The theory of NP-completeness rests on a foundation of rigorous but subtle definitions from automata and formal language theory.
	- This terminology is typically confusing to (or misused by) beginners who lack a mastery of these foundations.
	- These details are not really essential to the practical aspects of designing and applying reductions.
		- That said, the question “Is P=NP?” is the most profound open problem in computer science, so any educated algorist should have some idea what the stakes are.

### 11.9.1 - Verification vs. Discovery
- The primary issue in P vs. NP is whether *verification* is really an easier task than initial *discovery*.
	- Suppose that while taking an exam you “happen” to notice the answer of the student next to you.
		- Are you now better off?
		- You wouldn’t dare turn it in without checking, since an able student like you could answer the question correctly if you spent enough time to solve it.
	- The question here is whether you really can verify the answer faster than you can find it from scratch.

- For the NP-complete decision problems we have studied here, the answer seems obvious:
	- Can you verify that a proposed TSP tour has weight of at most k in a given graph?
		- Sure. Just add up the weights of the edges on the tour and show it is at most *k*.
		- That is easier than finding the tour from scratch, *isn’t it*?
	- Can you verify that a given truth assignment represents a solution to a given satisfiability problem?
		- Sure. Just check each clause and make sure it contains at least one true literal from the given truth assignment.
		- That is easier than finding the satisfying assignment from scratch, *isn’t it*?
	- Can you verify that a given *k*-vertex subset *S* is a vertex cover of graph *G*?
		- Sure. Just traverse each edge *(u, v)* of *G*, and check that either *u* or *v* is in *S*.
		- That is easier than finding the vertex cover from scratch, *isn’t it*?

- At first glance, this seems obvious.
	- The given solutions can be verified in linear time for all three of these problems, while no algorithm faster than exponential brute-force search is known for any of them.
- The catch is that we have no rigorous lower bound *proof* that prevents the existence of fast algorithms to solve these problems.
	- Perhaps there are in fact polynomial algorithms (say $O(n^{87})$) that we have just been too blind to see yet.

### 11.9.2 - The Classes P and NP
- Every well-defined algorithmic problem must have an asymptotically fastest-possible algorithm solving it, as measured in the Big Oh, worst-case sense of fastest.

- We can think of the class *P* as an exclusive club for algorithmic problems where there exists a polynomial-time algorithm to solve it from scratch.
	- Shortest path, minimum spanning tree, and the original movie scheduling problem are all members in good standing of this class P.
- The P stands for *polynomial time*.

- A less exclusive club welcomes all the algorithmic problems whose solutions can be *verified* in polynomial time.
	- As shown above, this club contains traveling salesman, satisfiability, and vertex cover, none of which currently have the credentials to join P.
	- However, all the members of P get a free pass into this less exclusive club.
		- If you can solve a decision problem from scratch in polynomial time, you certainly can verify another solution to it that fast: just check whether you agree on the yes–no answer.
- We call this less-exclusive club *NP*.
	- It stands for *non-deterministic polynomial time*.

- The $1,000,000 question is whether there are problems in NP that are not members of P.
	- If no such problem exists, the classes must be the same and $P = NP$.
	- If even one such a problem exists, the two classes are different and $P \neq NP$.
- The opinion of most algorists and complexity theorists is that $P \neq NP$, meaning that some NP problems do not have polynomial-time algorithms, but a much stronger proof than “I can’t find a fast enough algorithm” is needed.

### 11.9.3 - Why Satisfiability is Hard
- An enormous tree of NP-completeness reductions has been established that entirely rests on the hardness of satisfiability.
	- The portion of this tree demonstrated and/or stated in this chapter is shown in Figure 11.2.

- This may seem like a fragile foundation.
- What would it mean if someone *did* find a polynomial-time algorithm for satisfiability?
	- A fast algorithm for any given NP-complete problem (say traveling salesman) implies fast algorithm for all the problems on the path in the reduction tree between TSP and satisfiability (Hamiltonian cycle, vertex cover, and 3-SAT).
		- But a fast algorithm for satisfiability doesn’t immediately yield us anything because the reduction path from SAT to SAT is empty.

- Fear not. There exists an extraordinary super-reduction called *Cook’s theorem* reducing *all* the problems in NP to satisfiability.
	- Thus, if you prove that satisfiability (or equivalently any single NP-complete problem) is in P, then *all* other problems in NP follow and $P = NP$.
		- Since essentially every problem mentioned in this book is in NP, this would be an enormously powerful and surprising result.

- Cook’s theorem proves that satisfiability is as hard as any problem in NP
- Furthermore, it proves that every NP-complete problem is as hard as any other.
	- Any domino falling (meaning a polynomial-time algorithm to solve just one NP-complete problem) knocks them all down.
	- Our inability to find a fast algorithm for any of these problems is a strong reason for believing that they are all truly hard, meaning $P \neq NP$.

### 11.9.4 - NP-Hard vs. NP-Complete?
- The final technicality we will discuss is the difference between a problem being NP-hard and NP-complete.
	- I tend to be somewhat loose with my terminology, but there is a subtle (usually irrelevant) distinction between the two concepts.

- We say that a problem is *NP-hard* if, like satisfiability, it is at least as hard as any problem in NP.
- We say that a problem is *NP-complete* if it is NP-hard, and also in NP itself.
	- Because NP is such a large class of problems, most NP-hard problems you encounter will actually be in NP and thus NP-complete.
		- The issue can always be settled by giving a (usually simple) verification strategy for the problem.
	- All the NP-hard problems encountered in this book are also NP-complete.

- That said, there are some problems that appear to be NP-hard yet are not in NP.
	- These problems might be *even harder* than NP-complete!
	- Two-player games such as chess provide examples of problems that are not in NP.
		- Imagine sitting down to play chess with some know-it-all who is playing white. He pushes his king’s pawn up two squares to start the game, and announces “checkmate.” The only obvious way to verify that he is right would be to construct the full tree of all your possible moves with his irrefutable replies and demonstrate that you, in fact, cannot win from the current position.
		- This full tree will have a number of nodes exponential in its height, which is the number of moves before you lose playing your most spirited possible defense.
			- Clearly this tree cannot be constructed and analyzed in polynomial time, so the problem is not in NP.