#Chapter_8 
- Proper modeling is the key to making effective use of graph algorithms.
- Several properties have been defined, and efficient algorithms for computing them developed.
	- All told, there are about two dozen different algorithmic graph problems presented in the catalog, mostly in Sections 18 and 19.
		- These classical graph problems provide a framework for modeling most applications.

- The secret is learning to design graphs, not algorithms.
- We've already seen a few instances of this idea:
	- The *maximum* spanning tree can be found by negating the edge weights of the input graph *G* and using a [[8.1 - Minimum Spanning Trees|minimum spanning tree]] algorithm on the result.
		- The spanning tree of $-G$ that has the most negative weight will define the maximum-weight tree in *G*.
	- To solve [[8.5 - Network Flows and Bipartite Matching|bipartite matching]], we constructed a special network flow graph such that the maximum flow corresponds to a matching having the largest number of edges.

- The applications below demonstrate the power of proper modeling.
	- Each arose in a real-world application, and each can be modeled as a graph problem.
	- Some of the modellings are quite clever, but they illustrate the versatility of graphs in representing relationships.

### The Pink Panther's Passport to Peril
- ***Problem:***
	- I'm looking for an algorithm to design natural routes for video-game characters to follow through an obstacle-filled room. How should I do it?

- ***Solution:*
	- Presumably the desired route should look like a path than an intelligent being would choose.
		- Since intelligent beings are either lazy or efficient, this should be modeled as a shortest-path problem.
	- But what is the graph?
		- One approach might be to lay a grid of points in the room.
			- Create a vertex for each grid point that is a valid place for the character to stand, one that does not lie within an obstacle.
			- Construct an edge between any pair of nearby vertices, weighted proportionally to the distance between them.
	- Although direct geometric methods are known for shortest paths, it is easier to model this discretely as a graph.

### Ordering the Sequence
- ***Problem:*
	- A DNA sequencing project generates experimental data consisting of small fragments.
		- For each fragment *f*, we know certain other fragments are forced to lie to the left of *f*, and certain other fragments are forced to be on *f*'s right.
	- How can we find a consistent ordering of the fragments from left to right that satisfies all the constraints?

- ***Solution:*
	- Create a directed graph, where each fragment is assigned a unique vertex.
		- Insert a directed edge *(l, f)* from any fragment *l* that is forced to be to the left of *f*, and a directed edge *(f, r)* to any fragment *r* that is forced to be on the right of *f*.
	- We seek an ordering of the vertices such that all the edges go from left to right.
		- This is a *topological sort* of the resulting directed acyclic graph.
	- The graph must be acyclic, because cycles would make finding a consistent ordering impossible.

### Bucketing Rectangles
- ***Problem:***
	- Given an arbitrary set of rectangles in the plane, how can I distribute them into a minimum number of buckets such that no rectangles in any given bucket intersect one another?
	- In other words, there cannot be any overlapping area between two rectangles in the same bucket.

- ***Solution:*
	- We formulate a graph where each vertex represents a rectangle, and there is an edge if two rectangles intersect.
	- Each bucket corresponds to an *independent set*, so there is no overlap between any two.
	- A *vertex coloring* of a graph is a partition of the vertices into independent sets, so minimizing the number of colours is exactly what the problem is asking for.

### Names in Collision
- ***Problem:*
	- In porting code from Unix to DOS, I have to shorten several hundred file names down to at most eight characters each.
		- I can't just use the first eight characters from each name, because "filename1" and "filename2" would be assigned the exact same name.
	- How can I meaningfully shorten the names while ensuring that they do not collide?

- ***Solution:*
	- Construct a bipartite graph with vertices corresponding to each original file name $f_i$ for $1\leq i\leq n$, as well as a collection of acceptable shortenings for each name $f_{i1}, ..., f_{ik}$.
		- Add an edge between each original and shortened name.
	- We now seek a set of *n* edges that have no vertices in common, so each file name is mapped to a distinct acceptable substitute.
		- *Bipartite matching* is exactly this problem of finding an independent set of edges in a graph.

### Separate the Text
- ***Problem:*
	- We need a way to separate the lines of text in the optical character-recognition system that we are building.
		- Although there is some white space between the lines, problems like noise and the tilt of the page make it hard to find.
	- How can we do line segmentation?

- ***Solution:*
	- Consider the following graph formulation.
	- Treat each pixel in the image as a vertex in the graph, with an edge between two neighbouring pixels.
		- The weight of this edge should be proportional to how dark the pixels are.
		- A segmentation between two lines is a path in this graph from the left to right side of the page.
	- We seek a relatively straight path that avoids as much blackness as possible.
		- This suggests that the *shortest path* in the pixel graph will likely find a good line segmentation.

