#Chapter_9
- Surprisingly large problems can be solved using exhaustive search techniques, albeit at great computational cost.
	- But for certain applications, it may be worth it.
	- A good example occurs in testing a circuit or a program.
		- You can prove the correctness of the device by trying all possible inputs and verifying that they give the correct answer.
			- Verified correctness is worth much more than claiming that it works correctly on all the inputs you tried.

- Modern computers have clock rates of a few *gigahertz*, meaning billions of operations per second.
	- Since doing interesting takes a few hundred instructions, you can hope to search millions of items per second on contemporary machines.

- It is important to realize how big (or how small) one million is.
	- One million permutations means all arrangements of roughly 10 objects, but not more.
	- One million subsets means all combinations of roughly 20 objects, but not more.
- Solving significantly larger problems requires carefully pruning the search space to ensure we look at only the elements that really matter.

- This section introduced [[9.1 - Backtracking|backtracking]] as a technique for listing all possible solutions for a combinatorial algorithm problem.
	- I illustrate the power of clever pruning techniques to speed up real search applications.
- For problems that are too large to contemplate using combinatorial search, heuristic methods like simulated annealing are presented in Chapter 12.
	- Such heuristics are important weapons in any practical algorist's arsenal.