#Chapter_9 
- Backtracking is a systematic way to run through all the possible configurations of a search space.
- These configurations may represent all possible arrangements of objects (permutations) or all possible ways of building a collection of them (subsets).
	- Other common situations demand enumerating all spanning trees of a graph, all paths between two vertices, or all possible ways to partition vertices into colour classes.

- What these problems have in common is that we must generate each possible configuration *exactly* once.
	- Avoiding repetitions and missed configurations means that we must define a systematic generation order.

- We will model our combinatorial search solution as a vector $a=(a_1,a_2,...,a_n)$, where each element $a_i$ is selected from a finite ordered set $S_i$.
	- Such a vector might represent an arrangement where $a_i$ contains the *i*th element of the permutation.
	- Or perhaps *a* is a Boolean vector representing a given subset *S*, where $a_i$ is true only if the *i*th element of the universal set is in *S*.
	- The solution vector can even represent a sequence of moves in a game or a path in a graph, where $a_i$ contains the *i*th game move or graph edge in the sequence.

- At each step in the backtracking algorithm, we try to extend a given partial solution $a=(a_1,a_2,...,k)$ by adding another element at the end.
	- After this extension, we must test whether what we now have is a complete solution:
		- If so, we should print it or count it.
		- If not, we must check whether the partial solution is still potentially extendable to some complete solution.

- Backtracking constructs a tree of partial solutions, where each node represents a partial solution.
	- There is an edge from *x* to *y* if node *y* was created by extending *x*.
- This tree of partial solutions provides an alternative way to think about backtracking, for the process of constructing the solutions corresponds exactly to doing a [[7.8 - Depth-First Search|depth-first traversal]] of the backtrack tree.
	- Viewing backtracking as a DFS on an implicit graph yields a natural recursive implementation of the basic algorithm:

Backtrack-DFS(*a, k*)
	if $a=(a_1,a_2,...,a_k)$ is a solution, report it.
	else
		$k++$
		construct $S_k$, the set of candidates for position *k* of *a*.
		while $S_k\neq \emptyset$ do
			$a_k=$ an element in $S_k$
			$S_k=S_k-\{a_k\}$
			Backtrack-DFS(*a, k*)

- Although a [[7.6 - Breadth-First Search|BFS]] could also be used to enumerate solutions, a DFS is generally preferred because it uses much less space.
	- The current state of a search is completely represented by the path from the root to the current DFS node.
		- This requires space proportional to the *height* of the tree.
	- In BFS, the queue stores all the nodes at the current level, which is proportional to the *width* of the search tree.
- For most interesting problems, the width of the tree grows exponentially with its height.

### Implementation
- Backtracking ensures correctness by enumerating all possibilities.
- It ensures efficiency by never visiting a state more than once.
- To help you understand how this works, a generic `backtrack` code is given below:

```C
void backtrack(int a[], int k, data input) {
	int c[MAXCANDIDATES];    // Candidates for next position
	int nc;                  // Next position candidate count
	int i;                   // Counter

	if (is_a_solution(a, k, input)) {
		process_solution(a, k, input);
	} else {
		k++;
		construct_candidates(a, k, input, c, &nc);
		for (i = 0; i < nc; i++) {
			a[k] = c[i];
			make_move(a, k, input);
			backtrack(a, k, input);
			unmake_move(a, k, input);

			if (finished) {
				return;      // Terminate early
			}
		}
	}
}
```

- Study how recursion yields an elegant and easy implementation of the backtracking algorithm.
	- Because a new candidate array `c` is allocated with each recursive procedure call, the subsets of not-yet-considered extension candidates at each position will not interfere with each other.

- The application-specific parts of this algorithm consist of five subroutines:
	- `is_a_solution(a, k, input)`
		- This Boolean function tests whether the first *k* elements of a vector *a* form a complete solution for the given problem.
		- The last argument, `input`, allows us to pass general information into the routine.
			- We can use it to specify *n*, which is the size of a target solution.
				- This makes sense when constructing permutations or subsets of *n* elements, but other data may be relevant when constructing variable-sized objects such as sequences of moves in a game.
	- `construct_candidate(a, k, input, c, &nc)`
		- This routine fills an array *c* with the complete set of possible candidates for the *k*th position of *a*, given the contents of the first $k-1$ positions.
		- The number of candidates returned in this array is denoted by `nc`.
		- Again, `input` may be used to pass auxiliary information.
	- `process_solution(a, k, input)`
		- This routine prints, counts, stores, or processes a complete solution once it is constructed.
	- `make_move(a, k, input)` *and* `unmake_move(a, k, input)`
		- These routines enable us to modify a data structure in response to the latest move, as well as clean up this data structure if we decide to take back the move, as well as clean up this data structure if we decide to take back the move.
		- Such a data structure can always be rebuilt from scratch using the solution vector *a*, but this can be inefficient when each move involves small incremental changes that can easily be undone.
		- These calls will function as null stubs in all of this section's examples, but will be employing in the Sudoku program of Section 9.4.

- A global `finished` flag is included to allow for premature termination, which could be set in any application-specific routine.