#Chapter_9 
- [[9.1 - Backtracking|Backtracking]] ensures correctness by enumerating all possibilities.
	- A correct algorithm to find the optimal traveling salesman tour constructs all $n!$ permutations of the *n* vertices of graph *G*.
	- For each permutation, we check whether all edges implied by the tour really exist in *G* and if so add the weights of these edges together.
	- The tour with the minimum weight is the solution.

- However, it is wasteful to construct all the permutations first and then analyze them later.
- Suppose our search started from vertex $v_1$, and it happened that vertex-pair $(v_1,v_2)$ was not an edge in *G*.
	- The $(n-2)!$ permutations enumerated starting with $(v_1,v_2)$ as its prefix would be a complete waste of effort.
		- Much better would be to stop the search after $[v_1,v_2]$ and then continue from $[v_1,v_3]$.
- By restricting the set of next elements to reflect only legal moves with respect to the current partial configuration, we significantly reduce the total search complexity.

- *Pruning* is the technique of abandoning a search direction the instant we can establish that a given partial solution cannot be extended into a full solution.
	- For travelling salesman, we seek the cheapest tour the visits all vertices.
		- Suppose that in the course of our search we find a tour *t* whose cost is $C_t$.
		- Later, we may have a partial solution *a* whose edge sum $C_a\geq C_t$.
		- Is there any reason to continue exploring this node? No, because any tour with *a* as its prefix will have cost greater than tour *t*, and hence is doomed to be non-optimal.
		- Cutting away such failed partial tours from the search tree as soon as possible can have an enormous impact on running time.

- Exploiting symmetry is another avenue for reducing combinatorial search.
- Pruning away partial solutions equivalent to those previously considered requires underlying symmetries in the search space.
	- For example, consider the state of our TSP search after we have tried all partial positions beginning with $v_1$.
		- Does it pay to continue the search with partial solutions beginning with $v_2$?
		- No. Any tour starting and ending at $v_2$ can be viewed as a rotation of one starting and ending at $v_1$, for TSP tours are closed cycles.
		- There are thus only $(n-1)!$ distinct tours on *n* vertices, not $n!$.
		- By restricting the first element of the tour to $v_1$, we save a factor of *n*in time without missing any interesting solutions.
- Detecting such symmetries can be subtle, but once identified they can usually be easily exploited.

- ***Take-Home Lesson*:
	- ***Combinatorial search, when augmented with tree-pruning techniques, can be used to find the optimal solution for small optimization problems.*
	- ***How small depends upon the specific problem, but typical size limits are somewhere between twenty and a hundred items.*