#Chapter_7 
- Perhaps the fundamental graph problem is to visit every edge and vertex in a graph in a systematic way.
	- All the basic bookkeeping operations on graphs (e.g. printing or copying graphs, and converting between alternative representations) are applications of graph traversal.
- Mazes are naturally represented by graphs, where each vertex denotes a junction of the maze, and each edge denotes a passageway.
	- Thus, any graph traversal algorithm must be powerful enough to get us out of an arbitrary maze.
	- For *efficiency*, we must make sure we don't get trapped in the maze and visit the same place repeatedly.
	- For *correctness*, we must do the traversal in a systematic way to guarantee that we find a way out of the maze.
	- Our search must take us through every edge and vertex in the graph.

- The key idea behind graph traversal is to mark each vertex when we first visit it and keep track of what we have not yet explored.
	- We rely on Boolean flags or enumerated types.
- Each vertex will exist in one of three states:
	- *Undiscovered*:
		- The vertex is in its initial, virgin state.
	- *Discovered*:
		- The vertex has been found, but we have not yet checked out all its incident edges.
	- *Processed*:
		- The vertex after we have visited all of its incident edges.

- Obviously, a vertex cannot be *processed* until after we discover it, so the state of each vertex progresses from *undiscovered* to *discovered* to *processed* over the course of the traversal.

- We must also maintain a structure containing the vertices that we have discovered but not yet completely processed.
	- Initially, only the single start vertex is considered to be discovered.
- To completely explore a vertex *v*, we must evaluate each edge leaving *v*.
	- If an edge goes to an undiscovered vertex *x*, we mark *x* as *discovered* and add it to the list of work to do in the future.
	- If an edge goes to a *processed* vertex, we ignore that vertex, because further contemplation will tell us nothing new about the graph.
	- Similarly, we can ignore any edge going to a *discovered* but not *processed* vertex, because that destination already resides on the list of vertices to process.

- Each undirected edge will be considered exactly twice, once when each of its endpoints is explored.
- Directed edges will be considered only once, when exploring the source vertex.
- Every edge and vertex in the connected component must eventually be visited.
	- Why? Suppose that there exists a vertex *u* that remains unvisited, whose neighbor *v* *was* visited.
	- This neighbor *v* will eventually be explored, after which we will certainly visit *u*.
	- Thus, we must find everything that there is to be found.

- See [[7.6 - Breadth-First Search]]