#Chapter_7
- Many elementary graph algorithms perform one or two traversals of the graph, while doing something along the way.
- Properly implemented using adjacency lists, any such algorithm is destined to be linear, since [[7.6 - Breadth-First Search|BFS]] runs in $O(n+m)$ time for both directed and undirected graphs.
	- This is optimal, since this as fast as one can ever hope to just *read* an *n*-vertex, *m*-edge graph.
- The trick is seeing when such traversal approaches are destined to work. I present several examples below:
### 7.7.1 - Connected Components
- We say that a graph is *connected* if there is a path between any two vertices.

- A *connected component* of an undirected graph is a maximal set of vertices such that there is a path between every pair of vertices.
- The components are separate "pieces" of the graph such that there is no connection between the pieces.
	- For example. if we envision tribes in remote parts of the world that have not yet been encountered, each such tribe would form a separate connected component in the friendship graph.
	- A remote hermit would represent a connected component of one vertex.

- An amazing number of seemingly complicated problems reduce to finding or counting connected components.
	- For example, deciding whether a puzzle such as Rubik's cube or the 15-puzzle can be solved from any position is really asking whether the graph of possible configurations is connected.

- Connected components can be found using breadth-first search, since the vertex order doesn't matter.
	- We begin by performing a search starting from an arbitrary vertex.
	- Anything we discover during this search must be part of the same connected component.
	- We then repeat the search from any undiscovered vertex (if one exists) to define the next component, and so on until all vertices have been found:
```C
void connected_components(graph *g) {
	int c;    // Component counter
	int i;    // Counter

	initialize_search(g);

	c = 0;
	for (i = 1 ; i <= g->nvertices ; i++) {
		if (!discovered[i]) {
			c = c + 1;
			printf("Component %d", c);
			bfs(g, i);
			printf("\n");
		}
	}
}

void process_vertex_early(int v) {    // Vertex to process
	printf(" %d", v);
}

void process_edge(int x, int y) {

}
```

- Observe how we increment a counter *c* denoting the current component number with each call to `bfs`.
- Alternatively, we could have explicitly bound each vertex to its component number (instead of printing the vertices in each component) by changing the action of `process_vertex`.

- There are two distinct notions of connectivity for directed graphs, leading to algorithms for finding both weakly connected and strongly connected components.
	- Both of these can be found in $O(n+m)$ time, as discussed in Section 18.1

### 7.7.2 - Two-Coloring Graphs
- The *vertex-coloring* problem seeks to assign a label (or color) to each vertex of a graph such that no edge links any two vertices of the same color. And the goal is to use as few colors as possible.
	- (Vertex coloring problems often arise in scheduling applications.)

- A graph is *bipartite* if it can be colored without any conflicts, while only using two colors.
- Bipartite graph are important because they arise naturally in many applications.
	- Consider the "mutually interested-in" graph in a heterosexual world, where people consider only those of opposing gender. In this simple model, gender would define a two-coloring of the graph.
	- But how can we find an appropriate two-coloring of such a graph, thus separating men from women?
	- Suppose we declare by fiat that the staring vertex is "male".
	- All vertices adjacent to this man must be "female", provided the graph is indeed bipartite.

- We can augment BFS so that whenever we discover a new vertex, we color it the opposite of its parent.
- We check whether any non-tree edge links two vertices of the same color.
	- Such a conflict means that the graph cannot be two-colored.
- If the process terminates without conflicts, we have constructed a proper two-coloring.
```C
void twocolor(graph *g) {
	int i;    // Counter
	
	for (i = 1 ; i <= g->nvertices ; i++) {
		color[i] = UNCOLORED;
	}

	bipartite = true;

	initialize_search(g);

	for (i = 1 ; i <= g->nvertices ; i++) {
		if (!discovered[i]) {
			color[i] = WHITE;
			bfs(g, i);
		}
	}
}

void process_edge(int x, int y) {
	if (color[x] == color[y]) {
		bipartite = false;
		printf("Warning: not bipartite, due to (%d,%d)\n", x, y);
	}

	color[y] = complement(color[x]);
}

void complement(int color) {
	if (color[x] == WHITE) {
		return BLACK;
	}

	if (color == BLACK) {
		return WHITE;
	}

	return UNCOLORED;
}
```

- We can assign the first vertex in any connected component to be whatever color/gender we wish.
- BFS can separate men from women, but we can't tell which gender corresponds to which color just by using the graph structure.
- Also, bipartite graphs require distinct and binary categorical attributes, so they don't model the real-world variation in sexual preferences and gender identity.