#Chapter_7 
- Some companies aren't picky about languages, some are.
	- They're mostly interested in how well you solve the problems than whether you know a specific language.

- If you're given a choice of languages, then you should probably pick whatever language you're most comfortable with.

- That said, if you have several good languages, keep in mind the following:
	- Prevalence:
		- It's not required, but ideal for your interviewer to know the language you're coding in.
	- Language Readability:
		- Even if your interviewer doesn't know your programming language, they should hopefully be able to basically understand it.
	- Potential Problems:
		- Some languages just open you up to potential issues.
		- For example, using C++ means that, in addition to all the usual bugs you have in your code, you can have memory management and pointer issues.
	- Verbosity:
		- Some languages are more verbose than others.
		- Java for example is a fairly verbose language as compared with Python.
	- Ease of Use:
		- Some operations are easier in some languages than in others.
		- For example, in Python, you can very easily return multiple values from a function.
			- In Java, the same action would require a new class.
			- This can be handy for certain problems.
		- This can be mitigated by just abbreviating code or presuming methods that you don't actually have.
			- For example, if one language provides a function to transpose a matrix and another doesn't, this doesn't necessarily make the first language much better to code in,
				- You could just assume that the other language has a similar method.