#Chapter_7 
- Broadly speaking, good code has the following properties:
	- *Correct*:
		- The code should operate correctly on all expected and unexpected inputs.
	- *Efficient*:
		- The code should operate as efficiently as possible in terms of both time and space.
		- This "efficiency" includes both the asymptotic (big O) efficiency and the practical, real-life efficiency.
			- That is, a constant factor might get dropped when you compute the big O time, but in real life, it can very much matter.
	- *Simple*:
		- If you can do something in 10 lines instead of 100, you should.
		- Code should be as quick as possible for a developer to write.
	- *Readable*:
		- A different developer should be able to read your code and understand what it does and how it does it.
		- Readable code has comments where necessary, but it implements things in an easily understandable way.
			- That means that your fancy code that does a bunch of complex bit shifting is not necessarily *good* code.
	- *Maintainable*:
		- Code should be reasonably adaptable to changes during the life cycle of a product, and should be easy to maintain by other developers, as well as the initial developer.

- Striving for these aspects requires a balancing act.
	- For example, it's often advisable to sacrifice some degree of efficiency to make code more maintainable, and vice versa.

- You should think about these elements as you code during an interview.
- The following aspects of code are more specific ways to demonstrate the earlier list.

### Use Data Structures Generously
- Including structs
### Appropriate Code Reuse
- Instead of writing two functions that do similar things, write one that is more flexible.
### Modular
- Sperate isolated chunks of code out into their own methods.
- Helps keep the code more maintainable, readable, and testable.
### Flexible and Robust
- Write flexible, general-purpose code may also mean using variables instead of hard-coded values or using templates / generics to solve a problem.
	- If we can write our code to solve a more general problem, we should.

- Of course, there is a limit. 
	- If the solution is much more complex for the general case, and it seems unnecessary at this point in time, it may be better just to implement the simple, unexpected case.
### Error Checking
- One sign of a careful coder is that they don't make assumptions about the input.
	- Instead, they validate that the input is what it should be, either through ASSERT statements or if-statements.

- Of course, this can be tedious and waste precious time in an interview.
	- The important thing is to point out that you *would* write the checks.
- If the error checks are much more than a quick if-statement, it may be best to leave some space where the error checks would go and indicate to your interviewer that you'll fill them in when you're finished with the rest of the code.
### Don't Give Up!
- Interviewers use difficult questions to test how you respond to difficulties.
- For extra "points", show excitement about solving hard problems.