#Chapter_7 
- We can simply run through a list of data structures and try to apply each one.
- This approach is useful because solving a problem may be trivial once it occurs to us to use, say, a tree.

- Example: Numbers are randomly generated and stored into an (expanding) array. How would you keep track of the median?
	- Linked List?
		- Probably not. Linked lists tend not to do very well with accessing and sorting numbers.
	- Array?
		- Maybe, but you already have an array. 
		- Could you somehow keep the elements sorted?
			- That's probably expensive.
		- Let's hold off on this and return to it if it's needed.
	- Binary Tree?
		- This is possible, since binary trees do fairly well with ordering.
		- In fact, if the binary search tree is perfectly balanced, the top might be the median.
			- But be careful, if there's an even number of elements, the median is actually the average of the middle two elements.
			- The middle two elements can't both be at the top.
		- This is probably a workable algorithm, but let's come back to it.
	- Heap?
		- A heap is really good at basic ordering and keeping track of max and mins.
		- If you had two heaps, you could keep track of the bigger half and the smaller half of the elements.
			- The bigger half is kept in a min heap, such that the smallest element in the biggest half is at the root.
			- The smaller half is kept in a max heap, such that biggest element in the smallest half is at the root.
			- Now, with these data structures, you have the potential median elements at the roots.
			- If the heaps are no longer the same size, you can quickly "rebalance" the heaps by popping an element off the one heap and pushing it onto the other.

- Note that the more problems you do, the more developed your instinct on which data structure to apply will be.
- You will also develop a more finely tuned instinct as to which of these approaches is the most useful.