#Chapter_5 
- Many interviewers kick off the session by asking you to tell them a bit about yourself, or asking you to walk through your resume. 
	- This is essentially a "pitch".
	- It's your interviewer's first impression of you, so you want to be sure to nail this.

### Structure
- A typical structure that works well for many people is essentially chronological, with the opening sentence describing their current job and the conclusion discussing their relevant and interesting hobbies outside of work (if any).
	1. **Current Role \[Headline Only]**:
		- "I'm a software engineer at Microworks, where I've been leading the Android team for the last five years."*
	2. **College**
		- My background is in computer science.
		- I did my undergrad at Berkeley and spent a few summers working at startups, including one where I attempted to launch my own business.
	3. **Post College & Onwards**: 
		- After college, I wanted to get some exposure to larger corporations so I joined Amazon as a developer.
		- It was a great experience. I learned a ton about large system design and I got to really drive the launch of a key part of AWS. 
		- That actually showed me that I really wanted to be in a more entrepreneurial environment.
	4. **Current Role \[Details]**:
		- One of my old managers from Amazon recruited me out to join her startup, which was what brought me to Microworks.
		- Here, I did the initial system architecture, which has scaled pretty well with our rapid growth.
		- I then took an opportunity to lead the Android team.
		- I do manage a team of three, but my role is primarily with technical leadership: architecture, coding, etc.
	5. **Outside of Work**:
		- Outside of work, I've been participating in some hackathons-mostly doing iOS development there as a way to learn it more deeply.
		- I'm also active as a moderator on online forums around Android development.
	6. **Wrap Up**:
		- I'm looking now for something new, and your company caught my eye.
		- I've always loved the connection with the user, and I really want to get back to a smaller environment too.

- This structure works well for about 95% of candidates. 
	- For candidate with more experience, you might condense part of it. Ten years from now, the candidate's initial statements might become just: "After my CS degree from Berkeley, I spent a few years at Amazon and then joined a startup where I led the Android team."

### Hobbies
- Think carefully about your hobbies. You may or may not want to discuss them.
- Often they're just fluff. If your hobby is just generic activities like skiing or playing with your dog, you can probably skip it.

- Sometimes though, hobbies can be useful. This often happens when:
	- The hobby is extremely unique (e.g., fire breathing). It may strike up a bit of a conversation and kick off the interview on a more amiable note.
	- The hobby is technical. This not only boosts your actual skillset, but it also shows passion for technology.
	- The hobby demonstrates a positive personality attribute. A hobby like "remodeling your house yourself" shows a drive to learn new things, take some risks, and get your hands dirty (literally and figuratively).

- It would rarely hurt to mention hobbies, so when in doubt, you might as well.
- Think about how to best frame your hobby though. 
	- Do you have any successes or specific work to show from it (e.g., landing a part in a play)?
	- Is there a personality attribute this hobby demonstrates?

### Sprinkle in Shows of Success
- In the above pitch, the candidate has casually dropped in some highlights of his background.
	- He specifically mentioned that he was recruited out of Microworks by his old manager, which shows that he was successful at Amazon.
	- He also mentions wanting to be in a smaller environment, which shows some element of culture fit (assuming this is a startup he's applying for).
	- He mentions some successes he's had, such as launching a key part of AWS and architecting a scalable system.
	- He mentions his hobbies, both of which show a drive to learn.

- When you think about your pitch, think about what different aspects of your background say about you.
	- Can you can drop in shows of successes (awards, promotions, being recruited out by someone you worked with, launches, etc.)?
	- What do you want to communicate about yourself?