#Chapter_6 
- What happens when you call the random number generated with your favorite programming language?

- We are used to employing physical processes to generate randomness, such as flipping coins and tossing dice.
	- We trust these events to be unpredictable, and hence indicative of true randomness.

- But this is *not* what your random number generator does.
- Most likely it employs what is essentially a hash function, called a *linear congruential generator*.
	- The *n*th random number $R_n$ is a simple function of the previous random number $R_{n-1}$:
		$R_n=(aR_{n-1}+c$ mod $m$.
		- Where *a*, *c*, *m*, and $R_0$ are large and carefully selected constants.
	- Essentially, we hash the previous random number ($R_{n-1}$) to get the next one.

- The alert reader may question exactly how random such numbers really are.
	- Indeed, they are completely predictable, because knowing $R_{n-1}$ provides enough information to construct $R_n$.
	- This predictability means that a sufficiently determined adversary *could* in principle construct a worst-case input to a randomized algorithm provided they know the current state of your random number generator.

- Linear congruential generators are more accurately called *pseudo-random number generators*.
	- The stream of numbers produced looks random, in that they have the same statistical properties as would be expected from a truly random source.
		- This is generally good enough for randomized algorithms to work well in practice.
- However, this is not good for things like cryptographic applications whose security guarantees rest on an assumption of true randomness.