#Chapter_6 
- A common programming assignment is to test whether an integer *n* is a prime number, meaning that its only divisors are 1 and itself.
	- The sequence of prime numbers starts with 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, ..., and never ends.

- Beginner programmers employ trial division as the algorithm:
	- Using a loop where *i* runs from 2 to $n-1$, and check whether $n/i$ is an integer.
		- If so, then *i* is a factor of *n*, and so *n* must be composite.
	- Any integer that survives this gauntlet of tests is prime.
	- In fact, the loop only needs to run up to $\sqrt{n}$, since that is the largest possible value of the smallest non-trivial factor of *n*.

- Still, such trial division is not cheap.
	- If we assume that each division takes constant time, this gives an $O(\sqrt{n})$ algorithm, but here *n* is the *value* of the integer being factored.
	- A 1024-bit number (the size of a small RSA encryption key) encodes numbers up to $2^{1024}-1$, with the security of RSA depending on factoring being hard.
		- Observe that $\sqrt{2^{1024}}=2^{512}$, which is greater than the number of atoms in the universe.

- Randomized algorithms for primality testing (not factoring) turn out to be much faster.
- Fermat's little theorem states that if *n* is a prime number, then:
	- $a^{n-1} = 1($mod $n)$ for all $a$ not divisible by $n$.
		- For example, when $n=17$ and $a=3$, observe that $(3^{17-1}-1)/17=2,532,160$, so $3^{17-1}=1($mod $n)$.
		- But for $n=16$, $3^{16-1}=11($mod $16)$, which proves that 16 cannot be prime.

- What makes this interesting is that the mod of this big power *always* is 1 if *n* is prime.
	- The odds of it being 1 by chance should be very small - only $1/n$ *if* the residue (remainder) was uniform in this range.

- Let's say we can argue that the probability of a composite giving a residue (remainder) of 1 is less than 1/2. This suggests the following algorithm:
	- Pick 100 random integers $a_j$, each between 1 and $n-1$.
		- Verify that none of them divide *n*.
	- Then compute $(a_j)^{n-1} ($mod $n)$.
	- If all hundred of these come out to be 1, then the probability that *n* is not prime must be less than $(1/2)^{100}$, which is vanishingly small.
	- Because the number of tests (100) is fixed, the running time is always fast, which makes this a Monte Carlo type of randomized algorithm.

- There is a very minor issue in our probability analysis, however.
	- It turns out that a very small fraction of integers (roughly 1 in 50 billion up to $10^{21}$) are not prime, yet also satisfy the Fermat congruence for all *a*.
	- Such *Carmichael numbers* like 561 and and 1105 are doomed to always be misclassified as prime.
- Still, this randomized algorithm proves very effective at distinguishing likely primes from composite integers.

- One issue that might concern you is the time complexity of computing $a^{n-1} = 1($mod $n)$.
	- In fact, this can be done in $O(\log n)$ time.
		- Recall that we can compute $a^{2m}$ as $(a^m)^2$ by divide and conquer, meaning we only need a number of multiplications logarithmic in the size of the exponent.
		- Further, we don't have to work with excessively large numbers to do it.
		- Because of the properties of modular arithmetic: 
			$(x*y)$ mod $n=((x$ mod $n)*(y$ mod $n)$ mod $n$.
		- So we never need multiply numbers larger than *n*over the course of the computation.